# DATA 512 Homework 1: Wikipedia Rare Disease Article Traffic Analysis

## Project Goal

The goal of this project is to collect, analyze, and publish monthly article traffic data for a set of Wikipedia pages related to rare diseases. The data spans from July 2015 to September 2024, and is gathered from the Wikimedia Analytics Pageviews API. The dataset allows for an analysis of trends in desktop and mobile traffic across various articles over time.

The purpose of this project is also to follow best practices for open scientific research, ensuring reproducibility through transparent documentation, data accessibility, and adherence to licensing standards.

The code for the project is present in the Jupyter notebook [wp_rare_disease_article_views.ipynb](wp_rare_disease_article_views.ipynb)


## License for the Source Data

The source data used in this project is obtained from the Wikimedia Foundation via the [Pageviews API](https://doc.wikimedia.org/generated-data-platform/aqs/analytics-api/reference/page-views.html). According to the [Wikimedia Foundation Terms of Use](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Policy:Terms_of_Use), the data can be reused, modified, and distributed as long as proper attribution is provided, and the data remains freely accessible.

How the Terms of Use Apply:
- The dataset created in this project is derived from Wikimedia's raw data. As such, it falls under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/deed.en) ("CC BY-SA 4.0")
- Attribution: If you use or share this dataset, you must provide attribution to the Wikimedia Foundation. The attribution should include a reference to both the original source of the data (the Wikimedia Foundation) and this project.
- Freely Accessible: The data must remain open and freely accessible to others, as per the terms of the Wikimedia Foundation.


## Environment Setup

To set up a Conda environment using the data512.yml file, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.
2. Navigate to the directory where the data512.yml file is located. In this repository, it would be the root folder.

    Note: Switch to the main branch.

3. Run the following command to create the Conda environment:

    ```
    conda env create -f data512.yml
    ```

    This command will read the data512.yml file and create a new Conda environment with the specified dependencies.

4. Once the environment is created, activate it by running the following command:

    ```
    conda activate orca
    ```
    (If the name in data512.yml has been changed, update the above environment name accordingly)

5. You can now proceed with running your notebooks or any other tasks within the activated Conda environment.

Remember to deactivate the environment when you're done by running `conda deactivate`.


## API Documentation

The data is acquired using the [Wikimedia Analytics Pageviews API](https://doc.wikimedia.org/generated-data-platform/aqs/analytics-api/reference/page-views.html). The API documentation provides details on how to make requests for pageview data and includes parameters for specifying the time range, article titles, and access type (e.g., mobile, desktop).

## Generated Files

The code generates several data files during its execution.

### Data Files

The data files represent the monthly page traffic for Wikipedia articles related to rare diseases and are stored in JSON format:

1. Monthly Mobile Access:

Filename: [rare-disease_monthly_mobile_201501-202409.json](data/rare-disease_monthly_mobile_201501-202409.json)

Description:

Data Schema:

```{
  "article_title": [
    {
      "timestamp": "YYYYMMDDHH",
      "project": "string",
      "article": "string",
      "granularity": "string",
      "agent": "string",
      "views": integer
    }
  ]
}
```

2. Monthly Desktop Access:

Filename: [rare-disease_monthly_desktop_201501-202409.json](data/rare-disease_monthly_desktop_201501-202409.json)

Description: This file contains the sum of mobile web and mobile app traffic for each article for each month in the specified date range.

Data Schema: 

```{
  "article_title": [
    {
      "timestamp": "YYYYMMDDHH",
      "project": "string",
      "article": "string",
      "granularity": "string",
      "agent": "string",
      "views": integer
    }
  ]
}
```

3. Monthly Cumulative Access:

Filename: [rare-disease_monthly_cumulative_201501-202409.json](data/rare-disease_monthly_cumulative_201501-202409.json)

Description: This file contains the sum of all mobile and desktop traffic for each article for each month in the specified date range.

Data Schema: 

```{
  "article_title": [
    {
      "timestamp": "YYYYMMDDHH",
      "project": "string",
      "article": "string",
      "granularity": "string",
      "agent": "string",
      "views": integer
    }
  ]
}
```


### Plot Files

The plot files are all the plots generated by the [Jupyter notebook](wp_rare_disease_article_views.ipynb)

1. Maximum Average and Minimum Average

Filename: [maximum_average_and_minimum_average.png](plots/maximum_average_and_minimum_average.png)

Description: This plot contains time series for the articles that have the highest average page requests and the lowest average page requests for desktop access and mobile access over the entire time series.

2. Top 10 Peak Page Views

Filename: [top_10_peak_page_views.png](plots/top_10_peak_page_views.png)

Description: This plot contains time series for the top 10 article pages by largest (peak) page views over the entire time series by access type.

3. Fewest Months of Data

Filename: [fewest_months_of_data.png](plots/fewest_months_of_data.png)

Description: This plot contains pages that have the fewest months of available data.


## Known Issues and Special Considerations

- Data Completeness: Some articles may have incomplete data for certain months, particularly articles created after July 2015 or deleted before September 2024.

- Access Type Considerations: The Wikimedia Pageviews API separates mobile web and mobile app access, and these are combined into a single mobile category in this project.